.TH mctl 1 "August 03, 2012" mctl
.SH NAME
mctl \- Minecraft server controller
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mctl
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
.br
.B mctl
.RB [ \-c ", " \-\-config " "
.IR PATH ]
.BR \-l ", " \-\-list
.br
.B mctl
.RB [ \-c ", " \-\-config " "
.IR PATH ]
.BR \-s ", " \-\-server " "
.I SERVER
.RB [ \-f ", " \-\-force ]
.RI [ ACTION ]...
.RI [ ATTRIBUTES ]...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B mctl
is a Minecraft server controller script.
.B mctl
handles simple server management tasks such as starting, stopping, and
restarting.  Additionally,
.B mctl
handles more advanced tasks such as archiving and the upgrading of packages.
.SH OPTIONS
.HP
.BR \-g ", " \-\-config
.I PATH
.br
Specify the JSON configuration file to use.
.HP
.BR \-s ", " \-\-server
.I SERVER
.br
Specify the server to apply actions and attributes to.
.TP
.BR \-d ", " \-\-dry\-run
Run on a trial basis not modifying anything. This only effects packages.
.TP
.BR \-f ", " \-\-force
Force all actions to take place.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Show a help message and exit.
.TP
.BR \-l, ", " \-\-list
Show a list of servers in the configuration.
.SH ACTIONS
.TP
.BR \-a ", " \-\-archive
Archive all of the archives configured.
.B \-\-include
can be used to archive only specific archives.
.B \-\-exclude
can be used to archive all archives but the excluded archives.
.TP
.BR \-u ", " \-\-upgrade
Upgrade all of the packages configured.
.B \-\-include
can be used to upgrade only specific packages.
.B \-\-exclude
can be used to upgrade all packages but the excluded packages.
.TP
.BR \-i ", " \-\-start
Start the specified server.
.TP
.BR \-q ", " \-\-stop
Stop the specified server.
.TP
.BR \-r ", " \-\-restart
Restart the specified server.
.HP
.BR \-c ", " \-\-command
.I COMMAND
.br
Run a command on the server.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.HP
.B \-\-include
.I LIST
.br
Specify archive(s) or package(s) to include when
.B \-\-archive 
or
.B \-\-upgrade
are used.  This will override any packages and only apply operation to
the package(s) specified.
.HP
.B \-\-exclude
.I LIST
.br
Specify archive(s) or package(s) to exclude when
.B \-\-archive 
or
.B \-\-upgrade
are used.
.HP
.B \-\-message
.I MESSAGE
.br
Specify a message to be displayed when the server is stopped or restarted.
.HP
.B \-\-timeout
.I TIMEOUT
.br
Specify a timeout, in seconds, for the server when stopping or restarting.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.mctl/config.json
The main configuration file for
.BR mctl .
.SH EXAMPLES
.HP
.B mctl \-s example \-\-restart \-\-timeout=30
.B \-\-message="Restarting server..."
.br
Restart the server after 30 seconds and display the message:
Restarting server...
.TP
.B mctl \-s example \-\-archive \-\-include=backup
Run the archiver on the backup archive
.TP
.B mctl \-s example \-\-upgrade \-\-include=CraftBukkit,dynamp
Upgrade only the CraftBukkit and dynmap packages
.TP
.B mctl \-s example \-\-upgrade \-\-exclude=Spout
Upgrade all packages but Spout
.TP
.B 
.SH "SEE ALSO"
mctl\-fake(1)
