.TH mctl\-fake 1 "August 03, 2012" mctl\-fake
.SH NAME
mctl\-fake \- Fake Minecraft server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mctl
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
.br
.B mctl
.BR \-s ", " \-\-server " "
.I SERVER
.RB [ \-k ", " \-\-kill ]
.br
.B mctl
.BR \-s ", " \-\-server " "
.I SERVER
.RI [ ATTRIBUTES ]...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B mctl\-fake
is a fake Minecraft server script.  It accepts ping and handshake
packets from Minecraft clients.  When a user attempts to connect,
they are greeted with
.B \-\-message.
This is extremely convenient for informing users of downtime while
the server is offline.
.SH OPTIONS
.HP
.BR \-s ", " \-\-server
.I SERVER
.br
Specify the server to apply actions and attributes to.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Show a help message and exit.
.SH ACTIONS
.TP
.B \-f ", " \-\-foreground
Do not fork into a screen session
.TP
.B \-k ", " \-\-kill
Kill the fake server
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.HP
.B \-\-addr
.I ADDRESS
.br
Specify an address for the fake server to bind to.
.HP
.B \-\-port
.I PORT
.br
Specify a port for the fake server to bind to.
.HP
.B \-\-motd
.I MOTD
.br
Specify a message of the day (MOTD) for the fake server.
.HP
.B \-\-message
.I MESSAGE
.br
Specify a kick message for the fake server.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.mctl/config.json
The main configuration file for
.BR mctl .
.SH EXAMPLES
.HP
.B mctl \-s example \-\-addr=127.0.0.1 \-\-port=25565 \-\-motd="Server Offline"
.B \-\-message="Server is undergoing maintenance, try back later"
.br
Start the fake server on 127.0.0.1:25565 with a MOTD and kick message.
.TP
.B mctl \-s example \-\-kill
Kill the fake server
.SH "SEE ALSO"
mctl(1)
